# My Budget App

My Budget App is a mobile app that helps track your spending. This app will be simple and easy to use. Of course, the app will have to be a mobile app for the convenience. Nobody will want to wait until they get home to enter expenses into their computer. They need to be able to do it then and there, hence the need for a mobile app. The main selling point of this app is that it’s simple and fast. Its easy to create a budget, there’s income and expenses, you don’t have to scroll to find specific categories. Once the budget is created, its easy and fast to add expenses on the dashboard.

The login screen consists of a sign in and sign-up button. The user can sign up or sign in by inputting a username and confirming a password.
To create a budget the user will input their income and known expenses for a selected month and the app will keep track of how much money they have left over to spend until next month. The user can add and delete expenses or incomes by pushing the edit button in the top right. The user can change the month by tapping it and selecting the month and year via the date picker at the bottom of the screen. 
On the dashboard screen the current month is displayed as well as the balance remaining, expenses remaining, and expenses paid for that month. Once a user adds an expense, which will be as easy as pushing the big green button and selecting the amount and name, the app will check if it is an existing expense, if it is it will subtract the amount from expenses remaining and create and entry in expenses paid and update the remaining balance. The user can delete expenses paid using the delete button in the top right. The balance cell changes colors depending on how much money is remaining relative to how many expenses are left to be paid.
The charts screen shows monthly and yearly visual reports. For the monthly tab it shows expenses paid vs expenses remaining for the current month as a pie chart. On the yearly tab there is a bar chart that displays expenses paid per month for the current year.
On the settings tab, the user can enable stay logged in. If this is enabled the user will skip the login process the next time they open the app. This speeds up the process of opening the app and adding expenses when you’re on the go which is the main idea behind the app. The user can also log out. On logout, stay logged in is automatically disabled.
The color palette I have chosen is mainly shades of green to promote growth. The font will be the basic System font because it is easy to read, everyone is used to it and there is a clear distinction between the letters and numbers.
